High in this video we're going to look at something called named topples.
So first let's remember that we've been considering topples as a data structure and we've seen how we
interpreted table as data structures essentially by letting the position of the elements in that container
give it meaning.
So for example we could represent 2D coordinates as 10 comma 20 and by convention we said OK the first
item in the top all will be the x coordinate.
The second item will be the y coordinates.
So if point is a position Tapazole we can retrieve the x and y coordinates using for example trouble
unpacking X come a y equals P T that will unpack the 10 into X and 20 into y.
We can also just access them directly this way X equals P T and use indexing to reach into the table
and grab the first element and then grab the second element.
So for example if we wanted to calculate the distance of this point from the origin right that would
be the square root of the x component squared plus the y component squared.
So we'd have to write something like this math dot s q r t point zero squared plus point 1 squared.
So this isn't very readable and if someone sees the code they're going to have to know ahead of time
that Petey's 0 means the x coordinate and Peetie Y means the y coordinates so this isn't very transparent.
So we may be thinking that to make this clearer to the reader we should use a class.
Now obviously we're not trying to clarify this to the compiler.
The compiler doesn't care.
Remember that very often we want the code to be readable by human beings by other developers or even
ourselves six months later.
So we might want to approach this using a class instead.
So we might try something like this.
Class point to d death on Dunder Inet Celcom X come y self-doubt as we set up the two properties X and
Y we usually give the same name for the parameters.
That way when we actually instantiate the class we can also use keyword arguments to instantiate the
class and so on.
So we might do something like that which means now we can create a point by just saying point to the
10 comma 20 or we could say point to the 10 comma Weigelt 20 and then for the distance.
Well that's more readable not makes more sense to a human being reading our code.
We say that distance is the square root of pizzicato x squared plus Y squared.
That's a lot more readable and understandable than using the positional indices 0 1 1 for a point.
I think that's probably acceptable but let's say that we have this class we have class stock and this
has Simbel year month day open high low close.
And then we set up all our properties this way.
And you might actually run across Python code that does exactly this.
And that's all the class does.
Maybe it has a few other things like your done the repr for the representation maybe a dozen recalls
because you want to be able to compare two different instances of the same point and see if they're
equal using the equals equals equality and you check to see that the are the x and y coordinates are
equal.
If you find yourself doing stuff like this take a step back.
You really do not need to define your own classes to do this.
It is a much better approach to doing that Python of course batteries included.
There's got to be a better way.
So using a class approach it's a little simpler because in order to get let's say I have an instance
of stock which is the Dow Jones and I can retrieve the symbol for that particular stock by just saying
dot symbol for the tuple I'd have to say the Dow Jones and then index 0 because this is a tuple.
If I use a tuple as a data structure I have to now know what index value I'm looking for.
Sampling with open the open which is the 0 1 2 3 4 index 4.
Therefore I'd have to index that for the close while the causes that last one over here which would
be 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 7.
So again this is more opaque to the user.
They would have to every time go back and think OK what is the you know what is the value stored at
index for IDEs the open get lot more difficult to read code that way.
In fact also look at how I calculate the difference between the high and the low.
Well I just have to say Dow Jones Dornheim mine is Dow Jones Dattilo that will give me that spread if
I have the tuple approach.
I have to write something like this.
This is not self-documenting code.
The use is going to have to go figure outside.
OK so 5 is high six is low.
That's what that that's what's going on here.
So the class approach has some distinct advantages in terms of readability but this extra stuff that
we really need to provide to that class at the very least we should you know implement the Dunder wrap
method so that we get this nice output of your point.
I'm just using our point as our example.
So we'd have to implement the Dunder repr method.
The other thing too is that we should probably implement that done requires method as well because we
want this to evaluate to true if we have two different points.
Two different objects two different IDs.
Obviously this point is not this point.
However in terms of using the double equality then we actually want this to return true because they
have the same coordinates.
That doesn't come for free.
We have to implement that ourselves in the class.
So now we have this code for our class.
We started with something that was pretty straightforward just two properties and now all of a sudden
we have to add more things in there.
There are other reasons to seek another approach and I'll cover some of those in the coding video.
But amongst other things one thing that's important to note with this point to the class that we just
created is that point to the objects are actually mutable which may not be something we want.
We may want to keep our points immutable now tuples are immutable but that class is not right or the
class instances are not.
So there's a lot to like using tables to represent simple data structures.
The real drawback is that we have to know what the positions mean.
And we have to remember this in our code and other people reading our code.
It may not be that transparent and if we ever need to change the structure of our table in our code.
For example let's say we forgot to add a value to the table.
It's very easy to break out code.
Let's see what I mean by that.
Let's say I start off and I have this you know Eric equals idle comma 42.
So that's you know a person and I've got the last name and the age.
And so now I can unpack it using a last name comma age equals Eric.
Now I go back and so let's say that this is at the top of my you know function or something or it's
maybe you know somewhere in a in a variable and then this happens later on you know there's no.
I have no separation between the two lines of code.
Imagine that you've got a ton of separation between them.
This might actually be in a function that receives this as a parameter.
Now the problem is that I go back and I say oh wait a minute I forgot the first name.
So I go back and I change my top all in my code.
Right.
I mean I'm not changing this at runtime.
Once the code runs the table is immutable.
But this is just code.
This is a text file.
So I add in Eric.
Now the problem is that every time I do this unpacking things broke because now this is this is broken.
This is not going to work anymore.
First of all we're only unpacking two values and there are three.
And even if that worked there's still going to be a problem.
Eric is going to go into last name right there.
That's not going to be correct.
Anyway it's not going to work.
So that's broken.
Now if we had to use the class approach then we would all probably have in our code things like last
name equals Eric dot last name and age equals Eric dot age.
So that's another thing to like about classes versus Stupples it it's that the code is a little bit
more robust so what if we could combine kind of these two approaches essentially creating couples where
we can in addition to having the positional you know meaning assigned names to the positions so that
now we have meaningful names against each position.
And that's exactly what named topples do.
So they subclass topple so named topples all subclasses of toppled they inherit from topples So they
are topples.
But this named topples thing adds a layer of property names to the positional elements.
Non-name table is not a type.
It's located in the collection's standard library module but named topples.
So we would use it this way would have to say from collections import topple but name topple is a function.
It is not a type.
It is a function though that generates new classes it generates classes it generates new types.
It is a class factory.
So the classes that are generated by calling them will inherit from topple.
So Trouble is not a class that inherits from topple name topple is a function that generates a class
that generate a class inherits from topple.
And it also provides name properties to access the elements of the top.
But the instance of that class is a topple.
And it would become clear now.
So just remember name topple is a class factory.
When we use it we're creating a new class just as if we had used that class keyword ourselves aka we
said Class point to the name top all essentially does that but for us so it needs a few things to generate
the class.
What do you need to create a class.
Well you need a name so it's you know name topple is a function that's going to require the class name
that we want to create.
It also is going to require the field names.
What are the properties that we want.
And the only thing is that the field names have to be passed to name top all in the same order in which
the values are going to be stored in the table because remember we use tool using a tuple as the underlying
data structure here because we are inheriting from topple so field names can be any valid variable name.
The only thing that's that we can do is that the variable names the field names that we pass to name
toppled cannot contain an underscore.
This is not a limitation of classes and class property names.
This is something that names topple and forces.
Now the return value of calling names topple will be a class the class name will be whatever class name
we provided and it will have properties you know mapping to the field names that we provided.
So now we need to assign that return value which is a class by not not a not an object instance of a
class.
It's a class so we can use that now to create objects so we need to assign whatever gets returned from
named topple to a label to a variable name so that we can use it to construct instances so in general
we use the same name as the name of the class that was generated.
So we might do something like this we might say point to D and you'll notice that I'm capitalizing this
because this is not a variable or regular variable.
This is a class point to these a class.
That's what gets returned from name topple what is the name of the class.
It's point to D.
This name here and the name of this variable here have nothing to do with each other.
We just typically choose them that way.
And I'll explain what what's happening and why we do that in the next slide.
So we passed a name top all the name of the class so that's just a string.
Here's the name of the class we want to create.
And here's a list of the fields that we're going to want.
So in this case point to D is basically going to have tables with two values.
The first value is going to be labeled x.
The second value is going to be labeled y.
So we can create instances of point to D just as we would with any class since it is a class.
So now we can say some point equals point to the 10 20 point to D.
Is this a label here.
It's not this one over here.
It's this label here.
Point to D.
This is the variable that I have.
I'm using that variable which is pointing to a class and I'm passing it 10 and 20.
So the variable name that we use to assign to the class generated returned by name table is arbitrary.
We could have said to d equals named topple point to D.
So now what's happening is that to create instances of this point to declasse we need to use whatever
name we have here.
So to d ted Konrad 20.
OK so be careful don't get confused between those two things.
It's no different than the following.
Let's say that we actually defined the class ourselves and we say class my class and I'll just pass
what's happening here.
Well there's actually two things that Python does for us here.
The first thing is it creates an object of type class.
So this is a class object in memory at some memory address with the name of my class that's the name
of the class my class.
But in addition what Python also does it creates a variable in a local scope that points to that object
and it calls a variable my class.
So Python does that for us.
It does two steps here creates the class and then assigns a label to that object.
That object has a name property of my class.
This is the variable name that points to that object.
But of course we could do this.
We could say my class alias equals my class.
What have we done.
We've created another variable name a label that points to the same class object.
So my class alias also points to my class and now we can instantiate this my class objects using my
class because my class is the label that points to that object.
So we call it and we get an instance of my class but we could also do it using my class alias.
That works the same way because it's pointing to the same class.
Both of these instances are going to be instances of my class.
They instantiate the same class.
It's very so.
Similarly this is what happens in name topples.
We have this alias.
Right.
The Web just the name the variable that points to the class generated name.
All you can think of it basically returns a class.
So it's like having you know a lambda function that basically is a function but it's an anonymous function
that doesn't have a name here.
The class does have a name because classes have names but it just returns it.
So we need to assign it to something just like we would assign a lambda to a variable name and that
variable name is arbitrary.
So the same thing when we create a name topple.
So what's happening here.
Well name top will creates this class and returns it to us.
And now we take a variable Peetie to the alias and we pointed to that class.
So now we can instantiate point two Ds by calling P-T to da alias with the parentheses you know and
then passing in the values that say 10 comma 20.
So this is why in general we make this variable name the same as the class name it's less confusing
if we do that
so there are many ways that we can provide the list of fields to the name table function we can pass
it as a list of strings.
And we've seen that we've seen that example but we also pass through a couple of strings and really
in fact any sequence.
And I say sequence because remember that the order matters because the sequence of the field names maps
to the sequence of the elements in the top.
So but any sequence type will work any any sequence of strings.
It has to be strings.
And of course they have to be valid.
They have to be valid variable names valid identifier and they can start of an underscore.
But we can also pass a single string where the field names are separated by whitespace or commas.
It is just something that named Tapazole implements for us and does for us.
So for example we could create a name or class point to d by passing in the field names as we've done
before we could pass in a tuple but we could also write it this way we could have a single string with
the field names just separated by a comma or if we want just by whitespace so we can use you know a
single space we could use two spaces.
In fact you can even use multiline strings and separate by using let's say a carriage return or a newline
and we'll see examples of that in the code.
So after we've created the name of class of course we can instantiate them just like any ordinary class.
That's what they are.
In fact the Dundon new method of the generated class uses the field names that we provided as parameter
names.
Right.
Just like we saw when we created our own point to declasse.
We did that under init method than the new we haven't talked about but that's howl's so we can create
classes that comes before the initialization stage.
We'll talk about that in the Object Oriented sections.
But basically it's a method and the field names that is in that method that was generated by named tuple
by calling names tuple is the field names that we provided in that list.
So this means that after we've created this point to declasse because name tuple generates that class
we can use positional arguments to create an instance then comma 20.
But because the name tuple class that we have here uses the field names as the parameter names and its
initialization.
We can actually call it with keyword arguments so we can say point to D 10 Weichel 20.
Just like we could have an ordinary class.
So that's really handy.
And it also makes you all sometimes coding much more readable.
Which is of course important.
And so in this case 10 we'll be into x 20 would be into y.
OK.
So how do we access data in a named topple in that point to the class for example how do we get data
out of that structure.
Well remember that named topples I'll just topples so we can still handle them like any other topple
so we can retrieve values by index we can retrieve values by slicing the table and we can also iterate
over the tuple.
So for example if we have pointer equals all the same one as before and we create an instance of point
to D.
By the way if you then check is instance P-T one of tuple.
The answer will be true because at this point one is a tuple.
It's a subclass of tuple it has some extra stuff.
But it is a tuple.
So we can unpack it using you know unpacking of tuples just as before because it is a tuple.
We can also retrieve items by index and we can also iterate over the tuple so we can say for e and P-T
one print either jiggle and print 10 and then 20
but now in addition we can access the data using the field names just like we did with classes.
So let's do again the same example we can now access the x value of P-T one by just saying Da'ath X
and we can that will return 10 and then we can access the y coordinate by just saying dot Y and I will
give us 20 x and y again come from the field names that we provided.
So since the name generator classes inherit from topple it's the same thing as doing class point to
D and inheriting from topple and we'll see actually what it looks like.
But basically this is what's going on a point to declasse is a class but it just inherits from top.
But because of that what's really important here to note is that it is immutable couples are immutable.
So now P-T one is immutable.
I just threw in two integers that are also immutable.
I can no longer change the contents of the object that P-T one is pointing to.
Of course I can change what object P-T one points to refers to.
But I cannot actually mutate that object and that can be quite handy.
But it also means that if you're trying to write something like this.
Peetie 1. X equals 100.
That won't work with a class that we had earlier that point to the class that would have worked.
Here it won't work.
Why.
Well because it's a couple.
You cannot modify the contents of the top or at least you can mutate elements inside the table if they
are mutable.
But you cannot change.
You know you cannot replace a value or add values or remove values from the couple.
The couple is a container is immutable.
Now also want to talk about the rename key word only argument that's in the name of function.
So it does take also a keyword only argument called rename and that one might be of interest to you.
And remember that field names for name topples must be valid identifiers and they cannot start of an
underscore.
So for example this would not work.
I wouldn't be able to say name top or Paulson name age underscore SSN that underscore here is not valid.
I also couldn't use that say a one or numerical value or something like that.
So this will blow up if you try and do that you'll get an exception will tell you no you can.
This isn't valid field name but if you use the rename keyword by default it's false but you can set
rename to true when you call name topple and it will actually replace any invalid field name automatically
for you and the way it will do it by basically uses a convention where it will actually use the underscore
So name topple will use the underscore and it doesn't allow us to use it however.
And in part that's why.
Because that way you can rename without risk of collisions with other names.
But then what it does it uses as the name of the field the position index.
So for example this will now work if we say person equals name people person and then we have name age
underscore SSN that is invalid.
But we have rename equals true.
What it's going to do is the field names will be name because that was a valid age was valid underscore
SSN was not valid and it's an index too.
So we'll actually get the field name as underscored too.
So that's what the rename function does now.
Introspection how do we find out what the field names are in a name.
All right.
We can do that.
And it's a class property called underscore fields.
So let's try again this name toppled here.
Now we can say person dot under Schofield I'm not using an instance I'm using the class the field names
are stored in the class.
So by calling on the school field it will give me back a tuple with name age and underscore to one of
a thing and introspection is that rember that name couple is a class factory.
In other words it generates a class.
So you know we could write a class that's similar to a name top all by saying you know class point to
D and then we'd have to implement a lot of things.
And of course we'd have to inherit from toppled as well to be more like name.
In fact we can see what the code is that was generated by named topple and that's by using against the
class property called underscores souls.
So if we create this name table here point to d with two fields x and y we can now look at the underscore
source property of point to D and if we print that out here's what we get.
Now omitted a lot of the code will see all of the code in the code section and the code video.
But for now here's just kind of an excerpt of what was actually written and what was created by name
topple.
Well it created a class in memory that could be defined using this code.
So you can see we have a class point to D that inherits from topple.
We've got a documentation string right here point to de X-Com why we have this new Dundon you which
it's not like donder in there that something happens before the Dondre in it.
That done the net is not what actually gets you or what actually creates the class creates instances
of the class the Dundon new is what actually is used.
So if you use a language like Java and so on the Dundon new is more like the constructor that we have
in Java.
The danger in it is a step that happens after the constructor is run after the object has been created.
It's a second step that allows us to basically inject things into the class like values we can call
parameters with arguments and then we can create class properties and things like that.
But you can also do it in the new method and you'll notice those two names x and y they're exactly the
field names that we had if we call them you know name and age we would see name and age over here as
well.
We'll see that in the code section and you'll see that it's creating a table.
So and I know there's an underscore they're not going to get into that.
That's for a different reason.
You'll notice that it also implements dhanda repr property method.
So we have here that it's going to return the class names or in this case point to d if we have an instance
of point to D.
The point today is not hardcoded here because we can subclass point to D.
We can actually inherit from this class that gets generated by name topple if we so wish.
Right.
And it uses the old style formatting but essentially it's going to give us point to d x equals y equals
whatever the values are.
It also has these again it's a different way of creating properties.
And we'll see that in the Object-Oriented section.
I'm not going to worry about it now.
Just think of this as essentially having you know self-doubt X equals and then it's you know it basically
defines how it's going to get the assets not solved that X. It's basically a property and it figures
out you know what is it going to do.
It's going to go basically grab the first argument of the top all the Y properties going to grab the
second element of the table.
And again those names x and y are dependent on what we pass to name top.
OK.
And the last thing that I want to talk about in this video is that there's a way to easily extract the
data from the name topple and throw it into a dictionary.
And this now is an instance method because obviously the values right are going to be the values in
the top also.
When you do instances of the name top all and we can look at the underscore as dict method instance
method.
And that will create a dictionary of all the named values in the top will where the keys are going to
be the field names and the values are going to be field values.
So if we have this example like before if we call underscore as dict on P-T one will get a dictionary
that will have X as a key 10 as a value y is a key 20 is the value.
So that can be really handy to go from name Toppo to dictionary.
And in the later video we'll look at how we could maybe reverse that process far more complicated but
that's doable too.
All right let's switch to some code and let's see all that in action.